h1. wiki_gchart_formula (LaTeX-style formula plugin for Redmine)

h2. Overview

* This Redmine plugin enables Redmine to render LaTeX-style formula images in Wiki.
* This plugin uses "Google Chart API":http://code.google.com/apis/chart/infographics/docs/formulas.html, so it works *without* any other software, such as @latex@ or @dvips@.
* You *can* use curly braces in formula.

h2. How to write in Redmine Wiki

You can write formula in LaTeX style as follows:
<pre>{{latex(formula)}}</pre>

For example,
<pre>{{latex(x=\frac{-b\pm\sqrt{b^2-4ac}}{2a})}}</pre>
is shown as !https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?chf=bg%2Cs%2CFFFFFF00&cht=tx&chl=x%3D%5Cfr%7B-b%5Cpm%5Csq%7Bb%5E2-4ac%7D%7D%7B2a%7D&chco=000000!.

@formula@ can include curly braces, '@{@' and '@}@'.

If you need more information about formula, please refer to "Google Chart API":http://code.google.com/apis/chart/infographics/docs/formulas.html and "LaTeX commands":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Displaying_a_formula#Functions.2C_symbols.2C_special_characters.

h2. Samples

* @{{latex(\sum_{k=1}^n k^2)}}@ is shown as !https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?chf=bg%2Cs%2CFFFFFF00&cht=tx&chl=%5Csum_%7Bk%3D1%7D%5En+k%5E2&chco=000000!.
* @{{latex(\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^n k^2)}}@ is shown as !https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?chf=bg%2Cs%2CFFFFFF00&cht=tx&chl=%5Cdisplayst%5Csum_%7Bk%3D1%7D%5En+k%5E2&chco=000000!.
* @{{latex(\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^n k^3 = \left(\frac{1}{2}n(n+1)\right)^2)}}@ is shown as !https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?chf=bg%2Cs%2CFFFFFF00&cht=tx&chl=%5Cdisplayst%5Csum_%7Bk%3D1%7D%5En+k%5E3+%3D+%5Clef%28%5Cfr%7B1%7D%7B2%7Dn%28n%2B1%29%5Cright%29%5E2&chco=000000!.

h2. Tips

* This plugin regards the sequence '@)}}@' as an end of the LaTeX formula, so you should write '@) }}@' instead of '@)}}@' to output '@)}}@'.
* Too long formula cannot be shown, because of Google Chart API restriction.
  If you need to output long formula, you should consider using another plugin, such as "redmine-wiki_latex_plugin":https://github.com/nisrael/redmine-wiki_latex_plugin.
* This plugin uses Google Chart API, so the formula you input is sent to Google.
  If you are nervous about the privacy, you should use another plugin instead of this plugin.
* You can use curly braces in formula, such as @{{latex(\sum_{k=1}^n k^2)}}@, because this plugin does not use @Redmine::WikiFormatting::Macros@ but has own processing method, @inline_wiki_gchart_formula@.
If you would like to know more, please refer to "wiki_gchart_formula_patch.rb":https://github.com/masamitsu-murase/redmine_wiki_gchart_formula/blob/master/lib/wiki_gchart_formula_patch.rb.
* @class@ attribute, "gchart_formula", is added to the image tag of formula.

h2. License

You can use this plugin under the "MIT License":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php.
This plugin uses Google Chart API, so you have to obey "Terms of Service":http://code.google.com/intl/en/apis/chart/image/terms.html of Google Chart Tools.

h2. Change Logs

h3. Version 0.0.1

Initial commit.

h3. Version 0.0.2

Add "title" attribute to image tag of formula.

